Related: [[JS Arrow Functions]]

**Important**: [JS Overview](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Language_overview)
# const, var or let?

## var
The `var` keyword declares a function scoped variable, not a block-scoped variable. In the snippet below, it will print 0-9, 'outside' and 10. The value `i` is still defined outside the scope of the `for` loop, and withing the function `stuff`.

```
function stuff() {
    for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
        console.log(i)
    }

    console.log("outside");
    console.log(i)
}

stuff();
console.log(i);
```

However, the `console.log(i)` statement after the call to `stuff()` will throw an error as `i` is undefined in that context.
But, if a value is defined with `var` outside of a function, it has global scope.
## let
This defines a block-scoped variable. It will print 0-9 in the `for` loop, and throw an error outside as `i` is undefined.
```
for(let i = 0; i<10; i++) {  
console.log(i)  
}  
console.log(i)
```

**NOTE:** a block is a region within two braces: `{ }`.
## const
This defines a constant. It can only be assigned once, and any attempts to change its value will throw an error.
However, an object or array declared as a `const` can still have its properties changed. They are block-scoped.

# New Methods / Concepts

## array.concat
This creates a new array, appending the provided value (an array or a single value), to it. 

```js
let a = [1, 2, 3];

let b = a.concat(4);
console.log(b);

// b = [1,2,3,4];
```

If no value is passed, a shallow copy of `a` is created. See: [concat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/concat). `concat` is preferred to `array.push` in React, because immutable data structures are used. An immutable data structure is one whose state is not modified after it is created.
## array.map
This applies a provided callback function to every member of an array, and returns a new array.

```js
let a = [1,2];

let b = a.map((x) => x + 1);
console.log(b);

// b = [2,3];
```

## Math methods

- `Math.floor`: round down to nearest whole number
- `Math.ceil`: round up to next largest integer, regardless of the decimal part. `Math.ceil(4.2) = 5`
- `Math.round`: round to nearest `integer` depending on the decimal. `Math.round(4.2) = 4` while `Math.round(4.5) = 5`
## Destructuring
This allows unpacking values from arrays, or object properties into  variables. See: [Destructuring](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment).
```js
let [d] = [1,2,3];
console.log(d);

// d = 1;

let [b, ...c] = [1,2,3];
console.log(b)
console.log(c)

// b = 1
// c = [2,3]
```

# Objects
```js
// Define an object
const man = {
	name: "Henry",
	age: 21
}

// access the properties
man.name;
man["age"];
```

Objects can be thought of as a collection of key-value pairs, similar to dictionaries in Python. As such, accessing properties using `[]` syntax grants O(n) access.
# Functions
```js
// arrow functions
const square = p => {
	return p * p;
}

const add = (x, y) => {
	return x + y;
};

const subtract = (x, y) => x - y; 

// `function` keyword
const subtract = function(x,y){
	return x - y;
}

subtract(1,2);
```
# Objects and 'this'
`this` refers to the context where a piece of code is running at the time.

When `this` is called in an object, it holds a reference to the object.
When `this` is called in a function, it is usually `undefined` or references the global object.

There can be issues where the code loses track of what 'this' is supposed to be. Try to avoid using it aka avoid as much JS bullshit as possible.
## Global Object
Javascript has a bit of fuckery called the 'global object'. It represents the global scope of the object and can be accessed using `globalThis`. The object varies depending on the runtime environment.

# Classes
It's quite simple. Classes are templates for objects.

```js
class Person
{
	// private property
	#gender;
	
	constructor(name, age, gender){
		this.name = name;
		this.age = age;
		this.gender = gender;
	}
	
	greet(){
		console.log(`Hello. I am ${this.name}.`);
	}
	
	getGender() {
	    return this.#gender;
	}
}

const Jane = new Person("Jane", 20, "Female");
```

A class method can read the private fields of other instances of the same class. Why? Who fucking knows?

# Data Type Notes

## Null & Undefined
JS differentiates between both.
- `undefined` - there is no value present. If you access a non-existent property or variable or a function returns nothing, you get `undefined`.
- `null` - explicitly stating that an entity is a non-value, only occurs when you set a value = null.
## Falsy & Truthy values
1. `false`, `0`, empty strings (`""`), `NaN`, `null`, and `undefined` all become `false` and are 'falsy'.
2. All other values become `true` and are 'truthy'.

# Operator Notes
## Equality Comparisons
There are two operators used to check if values equal one another.
- `==` - performs type coercion and checks if the resulting values equal one another. Type coercion is the automatic or implicit conversion of values from one data type to another. The opposite is `!=`.
	- 123 == "123" returns true.
- `===` - straight checks if two operands are equal. no type coercion. no bullshit. The opposite is `!==`.

# Control Structure Notes
## Exception Handling
You can't tell what type of error was thrown, because **anything** can be thrown with a `throw` statement. Why?

```js
function sayName() {
        console.log(
            `Hi, my name is ${this.name}. I am ${this.age} year${
                this.age == 1 ? "" : "s"
            } old. I am ${this.#gender}.`
        );
        
        throw this.name;
    }

```

However, you can safely assume that most errors caught are of type `Error`. Unlike C#, you can't catch a specific type of error, you have to catch them all then check using `instanceof`.

```js
try {
  buildMySite("./website");
} catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof RangeError) {
    console.error("Seems like a parameter is out of range:", e);
    console.log("Retrying...");
    buildMySite("./website");
  } else {
    // if you dont wish to handle other errors, throw em up the stack.
    throw e;
  }
}
```

// need to continue from the Array section on the Language Overview.

