# Traditional Web Applications
They were simple.
- Send request to server.
- Receive and render HTML.
- Fetch any CSS or JS scripts if included. Note that the page starts to render before these files are ready. 
- JS is executed once received.

```

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/exampleapp/main.css" />
  <script type="text/javascript" src="/exampleapp/main.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
  <div class='container'>
    <h1>Notes</h1>
    <div id='notes'>
    </div>
    <form action='/exampleapp/new_note' method='POST'>
      <input type="text" name="note"><br>
      <input type="submit" value="Save">
    </form>
  </div>
</body>
</html>

```

Here:
1. The html is being rendered.
2. Once the link tag is reached, a request is sent to fetch the css.
3. Once the script tag is reached, a request is sent to fetch the JS.

The page can be static or dynamically generated in code. However, each page required a trip to the server.

**Event handlers** are invoked by the runtime( the browser in this case), when a matching event occurs.

# The Document Object Model
HTML Pages are like trees. The DOM allows programmatic modification of these elements in the trees.

Take this:
```
<ul>
	<li> text </li>
	<li> text </li>
</ul>
```

It can be represented as:
```
<ul>|-> <li>
	|-> <li>
```

You can fetch elements from this tree using `document.GetElementById` or `document.getElementByName` or some others. Then you can manipulate their properties, or add children or edit their nodes. The choice is yours.

**NOTE:** HTTP 302 tells the browser to redirect to the URL in the location header, because the requested resource exists there. 

# Single Page Applications
Traditional Web Apps keep most logic server-side, so the browser only renders HTML and executes minimal JS.

However, SPA's don't fetch all pages separately from the server. Instead, they have one HTML page which is manipulated with browser-side JS. They don't reload the entire page.